hey everyone Travis here on the first
day of Blizzcon with coverage presented
by omen by HP I'm joined right now by
frou Dan himself who I even look at him
because he's so blindingly bright in
this outfit this is nice
oh thank you I was expecting another job
I mean to be honest most people are
really nice about the outfits but I feel
like they don't want to be mean I
actually today actually had decided to
decide between this one and another
outfit now it's kind of hoping people
would hate on this one but some people
said they like this I end up wearing it
do you worry that you keep like raising
the bar and ridiculousness at a certain
point you're gonna be like I can't top
it anymore yeah my fear is that I end up
becoming moot got to from Zoolander
where I'm eventually just wearing little
trash bags you know then just trying to
sell it off as fashion part of me thinks
that maybe for 2018 I might try
something different and maybe go into a
more cleaner look and but still a little
bit you know a wild and wacky but just
not like this was just like an attempt
to maybe do one last supernova and then
maybe condense a little bit wine things
down here after the end of the year now
let's talk about what you are doing here
which is working at the hearthstone
Invitational how many times you have to
like pronounce or add extra emphasis on
the end it's actually directly written
in our show notes please emphasize in
for as long as you can and we always you
know I put like four or five ends in
here
I'm sure that that doesn't get old with
anybody no let's talk about it so this
very different format from what I saw
last year at Blizzcon Oh what do you
think of sort of the change in pace and
sort of the different format well I
think it's a cool symptom of just how
Harsens expanding as a whole in terms of
the competitive scene and what bility
really wants to do with it
hearthstone is a very interesting spot
and I'm sure we can talk about it more
about its current state but they're
really understanding the power of
marketing through events and then that's
one of the big things that a card game
has the ability to market their game
through just doing cool events like this
and those kinds more of a celebration
anyways and one of the big challenges
that like you know I see Blizzard have
is that they have every World Finals a
Blizzcon and it kind of like challenges
a lot of people who don't want to sit
around all day to have like all five
finals here at Blizzcon so we're having
our world event in Amsterdam in January
which is really cool you're invited by
the way she comes
yeah if I can afford it I don't have a
job anymore so HP hopefully or maybe
someone else came to the sponsor you for
that anyone anyone at all okay we're
desperate here but you know we have our
main event somewhere else this is just a
party this is a celebration and I think
it's going pretty well the only problem
in my opinion is that we're sectioned
off so far off from the rest of the
Lascar that feels like we're kind of
outcast even though that's not really
the case it's got the brand new building
though yes the brand new building they
have to walk through a sky bridge and
walk down two escalators into the
basement of but and it's a really great
space once you're here but just fine I
had trouble finding it now I'm supposed
to work here it's a nice way to kind of
escape the event let's put it that way
that's a nice way to put it either way
so no but to the event itself so
obviously we see you want to break it
down for the people that are actually
aren't watching it right so the
Invitational is just kind of a cool tour
around what hearthstone is so they do a
bunch of different formats wild standard
they're trying out a new sealed
experimental format called excavated
treasure where they give you half a deck
that's already filled and then you have
to complete the rest to a limited car
pool so it's a cool little thing and
everyone loves that format a lot more
while and standard definitely has a lot
of things that we either hated in the
past or currently hate now so it's very
refreshing to see that and then they
have the team dynamic which they kind of
have like this weird debate podium thing
but it actually looks really cool and
they have team coms and dynamics and
that's another evolution in the
competitive scene team tournaments are
really taking off and people love
listening to people talk about it and
banter very good is there any any team
here that you think is favored I
definitely the chill blade champions
they have are to you na'vi you say ders
oh sorry
chill chill blade crusader chopping
champions an actual card in hearthstone
and they have three players who are all
competitive level we've all gotten
champion events are won tournaments and
the other teams definitely have more
like personalities or streamers as
opposed to actual competitive players
very good so they are maybe the
favorites here any interesting moments
that I've missed as I've been roaming
the floor on my first day one of the
most interesting moments for me was that
I actually watched Opening Ceremony from
the overwatch stage cuz I they gave us
like 30 minutes to walk around the area
before cuz I'm gonna be here all day Maz
will explore and the overwatch area
loves the hearthstone presentation if
there's one thing that I like I
feel like horizon's' really good at
doing is kind of bringing you back into
the world if you watch another eSports
event from photos it's kind of hard to
tell
ti from league worlds from hots at
Blizzcon because the stage is kind of
look chrome and you know the same but
all there's on one side of the audience
colors on the other side right with PCs
and a Korean playing behind a PC so it's
like a little hard to tell the
difference but in Harsin you always know
exactly where you are and from the very
GetGo every blitz con presentation just
you know no disrespect to any of the
developers they put a lot of hard work
they put up good content but it felt
kind of the same they're like we're
really excited about the upcoming
content in two months we hope you guys
enjoy it you can test it now on the
floor and we'll see you guys next time
and then that's it but right away ben
brode sits down he's roaring with
laughter he's showing you adventures
people are super into it and they were
almost as loud as they were for the
announcement of Moreh the new overwatch
hero and it's like cool cuz they're so
overwatch is such a different crowd than
hearthstone
so it's a it's an interesting thing that
I saw that just like really reminded me
why everyone loves hearthstone in
general and they usually usually come
back and check out what's going on I
mean if you get if you pit ben brode in
any of these games i feel like you're
gonna get a lot of cheers from the
audience but let's let's use that as a
good jumping-off point so they announced
Cobalts and catacombs which kind of
given that classic D&D feel which I
actually really enjoyed now what do you
think of everything we've seen so far
I got an it man like Warcraft lore and
everything is a little bit beyond me so
whenever it's like even like the Lich
King thing it was like cool but it
wasn't like as epic as it was for a lot
of people who played a bunch of that wow
stuff so somatic wise I don't really
care nearly as much as what the gameplay
has to offer but I've played the dungeon
runs and I'm a big fan of roguelikes
myself and I really love a lot of what
they're trying to do which is introduce
hearts on a different way to play and
recently horseman went through an
interesting event experiment called the
Hallows end and they had do a class
arena you can choose two classes and
fuse them together and I mean they're
not the first car game never do this
like magics survived years for it but it
went super well everyone loved it
because it was fundamentally a different
way to play hearthstone and this is a
really good way for another person who
wants to get into hearthstone they don't
really like playing ladder at ranked but
they want a different experience every
time which is what car games offer
and right now the AI is nothing really
special but if you play this dungeon run
you get a very different experience
every time and you can do it a cost 99
all nine classes so I love that kind of
content no it just seemed really really
cool I danced to play myself looking
forward to it
I talked to rain ad before talked to you
and he said his first impulse is salt
towards the new keyword that we're
seeing a little Barnes asked what is
your take on that sounds a little unlike
rain that I don't really kind of put
salt in him in the same category but key
word though the key word though recruit
definitely is a little underwhelming
compared to the other things they
announced one of my favorite mechanics
has already been introduced on the panel
it's called spell stone and spell stone
is every class gets a card that has a
baseline stat but it can upgrade its
power if you meet its conditions
beforehand so one of them for example
Drew is a one-man deal to damage but if
you gain three armor it increases power
and it becomes a different card and it
can do that I think up to three times or
maybe there are three levels to it and
it's really cool because in car games
one of the best things about decision
making and trade-off do I play it now or
do I get greedy which is fanatic to the
expansion and try to get more value and
more powerful effect and that kind of
timing and decision making have how you
way is ultimately what feels rewarding
about executing a strategy or pulling
off a specific combo so those kinds of
card that mechanic fascinating awesome
because that's gonna have so much
variation on how you actually play the
recruit definitely feels very flashy
like oh man he pulled like literally the
best card in this deck or he got the
worst outcome and that's important to
you a lot of people actually really like
cards like Barnes a lot people hate it
but I mean hopefully there's not too
much of it impacting games with the
point where people feel frustrated and
don't want to play anymore finally I
feel like we talk about this every time
we do an interview once maybe once or
twice a year the future of hearthstone
so maybe you know I don't want to take
too much of your time but you can kind
of tell me what you think thought of the
2017 development did we head down a good
path and maybe some hopes on what we can
see in 2018 yeah so I I love that I
always can rely on you that because I
love talking about this I love ranting
about it I actually had a miniature rant
on Twitter social media about it
after summer championship this past year
and a half or a little bit over a year
we had a player named Pavel having an
86% win rate in series played over 150
games so it's obviously not a small
sample size and that is unheard of in
eSports let alone a card game especially
if you're playing gets equal skilled
players and he did this in competitive
settings and he won three tournaments
out of five got to top eight and two of
them where one of them he got top a ton
when I got top 12 and it just like this
kind of kissing is unparalleled so what
we're starting to see is people are
losing more arguments against
competitive hearthstone is not actually
a way that you can pursue being pro
people gain edges and the bad players
make excuses that's just the more more
evident it's kind of like poker and
everyone makes comparisons to it but as
time goes on that's becoming more
evident as for the future of the game
itself
I see hearthstone like I I want I make
so many bets with people I actually have
a lot of running bets that I think
hearthstone will outlive almost all
current eSports maybe one or two of them
will stick around longer League of
Legends has great foundation and we'll
see what other games are able to do but
our stone has lived for quite some time
it's aged it's kind of mature and I
think one of the interesting things at
horsemen has is it's got like it's got a
cycle of content and that's all it needs
to really bring back players who don't
like the game if you don't enjoy
hearthstone they've purposely designed
the game as a way for you to easily come
back into it and it's gonna be a time
where nostalgia hit you at one point and
you're gonna come back and play that's
why we literally played magic for 20
years or why it why is why and why it's
more popular now than ever or a bunch of
people still play yugioh and pokemon
card game to this day because they got
sucked in when they were young and ten
years later they wonder how it was and
they actually enjoy it again I wish I
could play the while TCG still exactly
and I mean it's a very fun game and you
get a lot of that in hearthstone and I
think this past six months specifically
in hearthstone has shown that the
development team is very interested in
pushing out new stuff at a time frame
that is acceptable and communicating a
lot and they've even just talked in this
past weekend it's like they're starting
to understand the workflow system they
understand how to push things out
quicker and more importantly there's
giving results with better events cooler
features and I just think that you know
hearthstone in five years will still be
around and a lot of games that you look
at right now they
feel like just a way that the community
and developers and the way eSports is so
fluid it feels like it could disappear
any year and even though it's not true
people are saying every game is dying
but I think hearthstone will outlive
almost all of them
well hearthstone out live overwatch
League
yes oh I just loved easily the dramatic
pause right there okay anyway is there
anything that you would like to say
frodan at the end of this to anybody out
there who has been able to outlive the
shine from your your shirt here your
jacket well you know I want to give a
big shout out to a lot of the
hard-working people in the industry you
know guys like you Travis like in the
end you know you're not really
necessarily obligated to come out but
you're still kind of putting in the time
and most people don't really appreciate
that and honestly the more I read
journalism these days it's always been a
case with like you know the heart harder
it is to but for me to you know really
respect it it feels like everyone's
trying to get it click these days so I
want to give a shout out to guys like
you and everyone else hard-working
big shout to the fans that always
support hearthstone and also as much as
I kind of just made a joke at overwatch
the expense I really hope that do
succeed because the other outcome of
them everyone is accusing them of
setting that back the industry years
know no one wants that
so in the end we want them to succeed
and I want everything to succeed
honestly the more that everything can
grow the pie that the bigger it is for
everybody I would like to see a lot of
success I would be great anyway thank
you so much for the interview fro Dan
everyone else you can check out the rest
of our coverage of all things Blizzcon
right here on my youtube channel thanks
so much to omen for supporting our
content this weekend they are now in an
official overwatch league partner be
sure to follow them over at omen by HP
on Twitter for more updates